GDCC/Globus and Big Data Support (#8891)
IQSS/dataverse: doc/sphinx-guides/source/developers/big-data-support.rst

Since the direct upload mechanism creates the final file rather than an intermediate temporary file, user actions, such as neither saving or canceling an upload session before closing the browser page, can leave an abandoned file in the store. The direct upload mechanism attempts to use S3 Tags to aid in identifying/removing such files. Upon upload, files are given a "dv-state":"temp" tag which is removed when the dataset changes are saved and the new file(s) are added in the Dataverse installation. Note that not all S3 implementations support Tags: Minio does not. WIth such stores, direct upload works, but Tags are not used.

> Trusted Remote Storage with the ``remote`` Store Type

Reviewer: Would it make more sense for this portion of the big-data guide, that is not specific to Globus to be part of the base "remote stores" PR (7325)?

Author: I copied the text across to #7325.

Reviewer: Not crucial, but how come I'm not seeing the change you mentioned above when I try to compare the 2 branches, like this: 
https://github.com/GlobalDataverseCommunityConsortium/dataverse/compare/IQSS/7324_TRSA-HTTP-store...GDCC/DC-1
what am I doing wrong?

Author: I'm not sure. FWIW: Because I added the remote store and Globus doc in one commit to this PR, I added the subset about remote store to the other PR as a separate/new commit. So perhaps I have to merge the remote store branch back into this for the change to be accurate in github?

``./asadmin create-jvm-options "-Ddataverse.files.<id>.public=true"``
``./asadmin create-jvm-options "-Ddataverse.files.<id>.ingestsizelimit=<size in bytes>"``

Globus File Transfer
--------------------

> When configured to use a Globus accessible S3 store and interact with a community-developed Dataverse Globus app, Dataverse can support the transfer of files via Globus for upload and download. Due to differences in the access control models of Dataverse and Globus, enabling this capability on a store will disable restriction and embargo capabilities in that store.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When configured to use a Globus accessible S3 store and interact with a community-developed Dataverse Globus app, Dataverse can support the transfer of files via Globus for upload and download. Due to differences in the access control models of Dataverse and Globus, enabling this capability on a store will disable the ability to restrict and embargo files in that store.
```

I'm suggesting the above because we don't use the term "restriction" much.

Globus transfer uses a very efficient transfer mechanism and has additional features that make it suitable for large files and large numbers of files:
* robust file transfer capable of restarting after network or endpoint failures,

> * third-party transfer, which enables a user running Dataverse in their desktop browser to initiate transfer of their files from a remote endpoint, i.e. on a local high-performance computing cluster), directly to an S3 store managed by Dataverse.

Reviewer 2: These bullets don't look right at https://dataverse-guide--8891.org.readthedocs.build/en/8891/developers/big-data-support.html#globus-file-transfer

This mechanism requires use of the Globus S3 connector which requires a paid Globus subscription at the host institution. Users will need a Globus account which could be obtained via their institution or directly from Globus (no cost).

> The setup required to enable Globus is described in the `Community Dataverse-Globus Setup and Configuration document <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mwY3IVv8_wTspQC0d4ddFrD2deqwr-V5iAGHgOy4Ch8/edit?usp=sharing>`_ and the references therein.

Reviewer 2: I'd much prefer that content be put into the guides themselves rather than Google Docs. Can it be moved?

Author: The doc has info about Dataverse, Globus, and the dataverse-globus app, so if we move its contents, we may want to split it between at least the Dataverse and dataverse-globus app repos? Up to you.

As described in that document, Globus transfers can be initiated by choosing the Globus option on the dataset upload panel. (Globus, which does asynchronous transfers, is not available during dataset creation.) Analogously, Globus Transfer is one of the downloads in the file download menu.

> An overview of the control and data transfer interactions between components was presented at the Dataverse Community Meeting and can be viewed in the `Itegrations and Tools Session Video <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3ek7F_Dxcjk&list=PLLoKvRqQVbtKJFdIe-bynhnXdePwI7jpS>`_ around the 1 hr 28 min mark.

Reviewer 2: Typo: Itegrations

Reviewer 2: Also, you can pass in the number of seconds to YouTube.

Author: fixed

Reviewer 2: Nice. thanks.
